# Weather Application
#### Video Demo:  <https://youtu.be/-0bXUXALYhs>
#### Description:
            I have always loved keeping up with the weather and I even have my own weather station. Since I began this class, my goal was to get to this final project, so I could develop this weather application, and I cannot believe that I finally made it. This weather application was completed with Python and SQL on the backend and HTML, CSS, and JavaScript on the front end. After asking for the city, this weather application displays the current weather, temperature, feels like temperature, wind speed, and future forecast in the Imperial System. This site also has a light and dark mode, which helps to make it easy to always use. This site also uses data captured from the Open Weather API, so thanks to them for their help.
            On the backend, Python is used to gather the API data from Open Weather, which then transfers the data to the HTML page. It gathers all the current weather data and stores it into a dictionary. The future weather data is gathered by Python, which then transfers all the data to an SQL database to hold all the future data. The SQL file just holds all the future cast data that was captured from the Open Weather API. I decided to include an SQL database because it made it a lot easier to keep track of all the data instead of just relying on Python dictionaries. So, I included SQL databases due to their ease of use and ease of access.
            On the front end, the data is gathered using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. The HTML handled all the structure of my page and there was stylizing with the CSS. Furthermore, I also instituted a dark mode using JavaScript. I was able to get Futurecast as a table using JavaScript. At first, I considered adding the forecast as a separate HTML page, but after looking at weather apps that I use. I decided it was best to keep it on the same page and use JavaScript to make it more interactive. Furthermore, I really wanted to use JavaScript to get the metric system as a part of my weather application, but I struggled to get my code to work to my satisfaction, so I have decided to omit that for now. I will keep on improving, so I can be able to include that in my future projects in this class.
            For this project, I struggled with using JavaScript the most, and some of the CSS properties. This project taught me that those are still my biggest weaknesses. I could not get the metric system to work properly on my project and it took me a while to get my text and information lined up properly using CSS. I was forced to make many adjustments and do plenty of research to learn more about CSS properties, so I could get my weather application looking improved than originally used.
            The main thing that I learned was how powerful all the programming languages and frameworks are. It was amazing making changes to Python and watching them change in HTML. It was really great. Being able to implement a dark mode for my weather application and learning more about Javascript really opened my eyes to the power of JavaScript and how much more I have to learn about it. Finally, I learned that CSS is very picky with its properties, so I need to learn more about how to use specific properties and when is the best place to use them.
            This weather application was designed using Python, SQL, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. On the backend, Python gathers the data from the API and transfers it to the HTML page. The SQL gathers futurecast data from Python, by virtue of the API, and holds the data before it returns to a Python dictionary. The data is then transferred to HTML where it is displayed and used. The CSS stylizes the website application to make it more presentable and easier to use. The JavaScript hides the futurecast data until the user pushes the button which then releases the futurecast data. Another press then hides the data back. Furthermore, Javascript also implements a light and dark more for users. Finally, I just want to say that this project has been a great experience for me and it was truly a joy to be a part of this class and learn more about these programming languages. I really had fun learning about this.

THIS WAS CS50!
